_To our shareholders:_

The first 4½ years of our journey have yielded some amazing results: we’ve now served
over 17 million customers in over 150 countries and built the leading global e-commerce
brand and platform.

In the coming years we expect to benefit from the continued adoption of online
commerce around the world as millions of new consumers connect to the Internet for the
first time. As the online shopping experience continues to improve, consumer trust and
confidence will increase, driving further adoption. And, if we at Amazon.com do our job
right, we can be uniquely positioned to serve these new customers best and benefit as a
result.

_A Recap of 1999_

During 1999, our relentless focus on customers worked:

* Sales grew from $610 million in 1998 to $1.64 billion – a 169 percent increase.
* We added 10.7 million new customers, increasing cumulative customer accounts
  from 6.2 million to 16.9 million.
* The percentage of orders placed by repeat customers grew from over 64 percent
  in the fourth quarter of 1998 to greater than 73 percent in the same period in 1999.
* Customers around the world are now choosing Amazon.com for a wide array of
  products. Only two years ago, Amazon.com's U.S. Books business represented
  100 percent of our sales. Today, despite strong growth in U.S. Books, other areas
  account for more than half our sales. Major 1999 initiatives included Auctions,
  zShops, Toys, Consumer Electronics, Home Improvement, Software, Video
  Games, Payments and our wireless initiative, Amazon Anywhere.
* We've continued to be recognized as best-of-breed not only in our more
  established areas such as books, but in our newer stores as well. Just to focus on
  one area, Amazon Toys has received multiple awards, including being rated the
  best online toy store in an MSNBC survey, a ranking as the No. 1 on-line toy
  store by Forrester Research, and the top e-Rating from Consumer Reports in the
  toys category, in each case beating out a number of longer-established players.
* Sales outside of the US accounted for 22 percent of our business, totaling $
  million. In the U.K. and Germany, we added Music, Auctions and zShops. In
  fact, Amazon.co.uk, Amazon.de, and Amazon.com are now the #1, #2, and #
  most popular online retail domains in Europe.
* We grew worldwide distribution capacity from roughly 300,000 square feet to
  over 5 million square feet in less than 12 months.

- In part because of this infrastructure, we were able to grow revenues 90 percent in
  just three months, while shipping well over 99 percent of our holiday orders in
  time for the holidays. As far as we can determine, no other company has ever
  grown 90 percent in three months on a sales base of over $1 billion.

I’m incredibly proud of everyone at Amazon.com for their tireless efforts to deliver what
has become the standard-setting, Amazon.com-class customer experience while
simultaneously handling such extraordinary growth rates. If any of you shareholders
would like to thank this incredible worldwide team of Amazonians, please feel free to
send an email to jeff@amazon.com. With help from my astounding office staff, I’ll
compile them and send them to the company. I know it would be appreciated. (As a side
benefit I’ll get to see if anyone reads these letters!)

In 1999, we continued to benefit from a business model that is inherently capital efficient.
We don’t need to build physical stores or stock those stores with inventory, and our
centralized distribution model has allowed us to build a business with over $2 billion in
annualized sales but requiring just $220 million in inventory and $318 million in fixed
assets. Over the last five years, we’ve cumulatively used just $62 million in operating
cash.

_What Do You Own?_

At a recent event at the Stanford University campus, a young woman came to the
microphone and asked me a great question: “I have 100 shares of Amazon.com. What do
I own?”

I was surprised I hadn’t heard it before, at least not so simply put. What do you own?
You own a piece of the leading e-commerce platform.

The Amazon.com platform is comprised of brand, customers, technology, distribution
capability, deep e-commerce expertise, and a great team with a passion for innovation
and a passion for serving customers well. We begin the year 2000 with 17 million
customers, a world-wide reputation for customer focus, the best e-commerce software
systems, and purpose-built distribution and customer service infrastructure. We believe
we have reached a “tipping point,” where this platform allows us to launch new e-
commerce businesses faster, with a higher quality of customer experience, a lower
incremental cost, a higher chance of success, and a faster path to scale and profitability
than any other company.

Our vision is to use this platform to build Earth’s most customer-centric company, a
place where customers can come to find and discover anything and everything they might
want to buy online. We won’t do so alone, but together with what will be thousands of
partners of all sizes. We’ll listen to customers, invent on their behalf, and personalize the
store for each of them, all while working hard to continue to earn their trust. As is
probably clear, this platform affords an unusually large scale opportunity, one that should

prove very valuable for both customers and shareholders if we can make the most of it.
Despite the many risks and complexities, we are deeply committed to doing so.

_Goals for 2000_

In the year 2000, Amazon.com has six major goals: growth in both the number of our
customers and the strength of the relationship we have with each of them; continued rapid
expansion of the products and services we offer; driving operational excellence in all
areas of the company; international expansion; expanding our partnership programs; and
last, importantly, driving toward profitability in each and every business we are in. I’ll
spend a moment on each goal.

**Growing and strengthening customer relationships**  We will continue to invest
heavily in introductions to new customers. Though it’s sometimes hard to imagine with
all that has happened in the last five years, this remains Day 1 for e-commerce, and these
are the early days of category formation where many customers are forming relationships
for the first time. We must work hard to grow the number of customers who shop with
us, the number of products they purchase, the frequency with which they shop, and the
level of satisfaction they have when they do so.

**Product and service expansion**  We are working to build a place where customers can
find and discover anything they want to buy, anytime, anywhere. Each new product and
service we offer makes us more relevant to a wider group of customers and can increase
the frequency with which they visit our store. So, as we expand our offering, we create a
virtuous cycle for the whole business. The more frequently customers visit our store, the
less time, energy, and marketing investment is required to get them to come back again.
In sight, in mind.

Further, as we expand, each new store has a dedicated team working to make it best-of-
breed in its category; thus each new store is also a new opportunity to demonstrate to
customers our focus on them. Finally, each new product or service further leverages our
investments in distribution, customer service, technology, and brand, and can yield
increased leverage on our bottom line.

**Operational excellence**  To us, operational excellence implies two things: delivering
continuous improvement in customer experience and driving productivity, margin,
efficiency, and asset velocity across all our businesses.

Often, the best way to drive one of these is to deliver the other. For instance, more
efficient distribution yields faster delivery times, which in turn lowers contacts per order
and customer service costs. These, in turn, improve customer experience and build
brand, which in turn decreases customer acquisition and retention costs.

Our whole company is highly focused on driving operational excellence in each area of
our business in 2000. Being world class in both customer experience and operations will
allow us to grow faster and deliver even higher service levels.

**International expansion**  We think that consumers outside the U.S. are even more
under-served by retail than those within it, and, with our platform in place, Amazon.com
is well positioned to be a leading global retailer. We already have significant brand, sales
and customer presence around the world, as we’ve been shipping into over 150 countries
for almost five years. I’m pleased to report that our stores in the UK and Germany are off
to a strong start − they are already in the top 10 Web properties and the # 1 e-commerce
site in each of their respective countries. Our customers and shareholders around the
world can look forward to further geographic expansion from this base during the coming
year.

**Expanding our partnership program**  Through our platform, we are able to bring
tremendous value to our partners, such as drugstore.com. In fact, our experience so far
suggests that Amazon.com may easily be the most efficient, effective means for our
partners to build their businesses. In many areas, partnering is the best way for us to
rapidly expand our store in a customer-focused, cost-effective manner. One point worth
emphasizing: the quality of customer experience a partner delivers is the single most
important criteria in our selection process − we simply won’t build a partnership with any
company that does not share our passion for serving customers.

We love these kinds of partnerships because they please customers, please our partners,
and are financially attractive, pleasing our shareholders − you and us.

**Drive toward profitability in each business we are in**  Each of the previous goals
I’ve outlined contribute to our long-standing objective of building the best, most
profitable, highest return on capital, long-term franchise. So in a way, driving
profitability is the foundation underlying all of these goals. In the coming year, we
expect to deliver substantial margin improvement and cost leverage as we drive
continuous improvement in our partnerships with suppliers, in our own productivity and
efficiency, in our management of fixed and working capital, and our expertise in
managing product mix and price.

Each successive product and service we launch this year should build on our platform, so
our investment curve can be less steep and the time to profitability for each business
should, in general, continue to shorten.

_It’s All About the Long Term_

In our 1997 letter to shareholders (our first), we detailed our long-term investment
approach. Because we continue to add many new shareholders, we’ve appended that
letter immediately after this year’s. I invite you to please read the section entitled _It’s All
About the Long Term_ , as it is the best way I know to help make sure we’re the kind of
company you want to be invested in. As we wrote there, we don’t claim it’s the right
philosophy, we just claim it’s ours!

In closing, consider this most important point: the current online shopping experience is
the worst it will ever be. It’s good enough today to attract 17 million customers, but it
will get so much better. Increased bandwidth will result in faster page views and richer
content. Further improvements will lead to “always-on access” (which I expect will be a
strong boost to online shopping at home, as opposed to the office) and we’ll see
significant growth in non-PC devices and wireless access. Moreover, it’s great to be
participating in what is a multi-trillion dollar global market, in which we are so very, very
tiny. We are doubly-blessed. We have a market-size unconstrained opportunity in an
area where the underlying foundational technology we employ improves every day. That
is not normal.

As always, we at Amazon.com remain grateful to our customers for their business and
trust, to each other for our hard work, and to our shareholders for their support and
encouragement. Many, many thanks.

Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
