_To our shareholders:_

In July of last year, Amazon.com reached an important way station. After four years of
single-minded focus on growth, and then just under two years spent almost exclusively on
lowering costs, we reached a point where we could afford to balance growth and cost
improvement, dedicating resources and staffed projects to both. Our major price reduction in
July, moving to discount books over $20 by 30% off list, marked this change.

This balance began to pay off in the fourth quarter, when we both significantly exceeded
our own goals on the bottom line and simultaneously reaccelerated growth in our business. We
lowered prices again in January when we offered a new class of shipping that is free (year-round)
on orders over $99. Focus on cost improvement makes it possible for us to afford to lower
prices, which drives growth. Growth spreads fixed costs across more sales, reducing cost per
unit, which makes possible more price reductions. Customers like this, and it’s good for
shareholders. Please expect us to repeat this loop.

As I mentioned, we exceeded our goals for the fourth quarter with pro forma operating
profit of $59 million and pro forma net profit of $35 million. Thousands of Amazon.com
employees around the world worked hard to achieve that goal; they are, and should be, proud of
the accomplishment. More highlights from a notable year:

* Sales grew 13% from $2.76 billion in 2000 to $3.12 billion in 2001; we achieved our
  first billion-dollar quarter on reaccelerated sales and 23% year-over-year unit growth
  in Q4.
* We served 25 million customer accounts in 2001, compared to 20 million in 2000 and
  14 million in 1999.
* International sales grew 74% in 2001, and more than one-quarter of sales came from
  outside the U.S. The U.K. and Germany, our largest international markets, had a
  combined pro forma operating profit for the first time in Q4. Open only a year, Japan
  grew to a $100 million annual run rate in Q4.
* Hundreds of thousands of small businesses and individuals made money by selling
  new and used products to our customers directly from our highly trafficked product
  detail pages. These Marketplace orders grew to 15% of U.S. orders in Q4, far
  surpassing our expectations when we launched Marketplace in November 2000.
* Inventory turns increased from 12 in 2000 to 16 in 2001.

- Most important, we stayed relentlessly focused on the customer, as reflected in a
  chart-topping score of 84 for the second year in a row on the widely followed
  American Customer Satisfaction Index conducted by the University of Michigan. We
  are told this is the highest score ever recorded--not just for any retailer, but for any
  service company.

_Obsess over customers: our commitment continues_

Until July, Amazon.com had been primarily built on two pillars of customer experience:
selection and convenience. In July, as I already discussed, we added a third customer experience
pillar: relentlessly lowering prices. You should know that our commitment to the first two pillars
remains as strong as ever.

We now have more than 45,000 items in our electronics store (about seven times the
selection you’re likely to find in a big-box electronics store), we’ve tripled our kitchen selection
(you’ll find all the best brands), we’ve launched computer and magazine subscriptions stores,
and we’ve added selection with strategic partners such as Target and Circuit City.

We’ve improved convenience with features like Instant Order Update, which warns you
if you’re about to buy the same item twice (people are busy--they forget that they’ve already
bought it!).

We’ve dramatically improved customer self-service capabilities. Customers can now
easily find, cancel, or modify their own orders. To find an order, just make sure you are signed
in and recognized by the site, and do a regular search on any product in your order. When you
get to that product’s detail page, a link to your order will be at the top of the page.

We built a new feature called Look Inside the Book. Customers can view large high-
resolution images of not only the front cover of a book, but also the back cover, index, table of
contents, and a reasonable sample of the inside pages. They can Look Inside the Book before
making a buying decision. It’s available on over 200,000 of our millions of titles (as a point of
comparison, a typical book superstore would carries about 100,000 titles).

As my last example, I’ll just point out that one of the most important things we’ve done
to improve convenience and experience for customers also happens to be a huge driver of
variable cost productivity: eliminating mistakes and errors at their root. Every year that’s gone
by since Amazon.com’s founding, we’ve done a better and better job of eliminating errors, and
this past year was our best ever. Eliminating the root causes of errors saves us money and saves
customers time.

Our consumer franchise is our most valuable asset, and we will nourish it with innovation
and hard work.

_An investment framework_

In every annual letter (including this one), we attach a copy of our original 1997 letter to
shareholders to help investors decide if Amazon.com is the right kind of investment for them,
and to help us determine if we have remained true to our original goals and values. I think we
have.

In that 1997 letter, we wrote, “When forced to choose between optimizing the appearance
of our GAAP accounting and maximizing the present value of future cash flows, we’ll take the
cash flows.”

Why focus on cash flows? Because a share of stock is a share of a company's future cash
flows, and, as a result, cash flows more than any other single variable seem to do the best job of
explaining a company's stock price over the long term.

If you could know for certain just two things--a company’s future cash flows and its
future number of shares outstanding--you would have an excellent idea of the fair value of a
share of that company’s stock today. (You’d also need to know appropriate discount rates, but if
you knew the future cash flows _for certain_ , it would also be reasonably easy to know which
discount rates to use.) It’s not easy, but you can make an informed forecast of future cash flows
by examining a company’s performance in the past and by looking at factors such as the leverage
points and scalability in that company’s model. Estimating the number of shares outstanding in
the future requires you to forecast items such as option grants to employees or other potential
capital transactions. Ultimately, your determination of cash flow per share will be a strong
indicator of the price you might be willing to pay for a share of ownership in any company.

Since we expect to keep our fixed costs largely fixed, even at significantly higher unit
volumes, we believe Amazon.com is poised over the coming years to generate meaningful,
sustained, free cash flow. Our goal for 2002 reflects just that. As we said in January when we
reported our fourth quarter results, we plan this year to generate positive operating cash flow,
leading to free cash flow (the difference between the two is up to $75 million of planned capital
expenditures). Our trailing twelve-month pro forma net income should, roughly but not
perfectly, trend like trailing twelve-month cash flow.

Limiting share count means more cash flow per share and more long-term value for
owners. Our current objective is to target net dilution from employee stock options (grants net of
cancellations) to an average of 3% per year over the next five years, although in any given year it
might be higher or lower.

_Relentless commitment to long-term shareholder value_

As I’ve discussed many times before, we are firm believers that the long-term interests of
shareholders are tightly linked to the interests of our customers: if we do our jobs right, today's
customers will buy more tomorrow, we’ll add more customers in the process, and it will all add
up to more cash flow and more long-term value for our shareholders. To that end, we are

committed to extending our leadership in e-commerce in a way that benefits customers and
therefore, inherently, investors--you can’t do one without the other.

As we kick off 2002, I am happy to report that I am as enthusiastic as ever about this
business. There is more innovation ahead of us than behind us, we are close to demonstrating
the operating leverage of our business model, and I get to work with this amazing team of
Amazonians all over the world. I am lucky and grateful. We thank you, our owners, for your
support, your encouragement, and for joining us on this adventure. If you’re a customer, we
thank you again!

```
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
```
