_To our shareowners:_

Random forests, naïve Bayesian estimators, RESTful services, gossip protocols, eventual consistency, data
sharding, anti-entropy, Byzantine quorum, erasure coding, vector clocks ... walk into certain Amazon meetings,
and you may momentarily think you’ve stumbled into a computer science lecture.

Look inside a current textbook on software architecture, and you’ll find few patterns that we don’t apply at
Amazon. We use high-performance transactions systems, complex rendering and object caching, workflow and
queuing systems, business intelligence and data analytics, machine learning and pattern recognition, neural
networks and probabilistic decision making, and a wide variety of other techniques. And while many of our
systems are based on the latest in computer science research, this often hasn’t been sufficient: our architects and
engineers have had to advance research in directions that no academic had yet taken. Many of the problems we
face have no textbook solutions, and so we -- happily -- invent new approaches.

Our technologies are almost exclusively implemented as _services_ : bits of logic that encapsulate the data they
operate on and provide hardened interfaces as the only way to access their functionality. This approach reduces
side effects and allows services to evolve at their own pace without impacting the other components of the
overall system. Service-oriented architecture -- or SOA -- is the fundamental building abstraction for Amazon
technologies. Thanks to a thoughtful and far-sighted team of engineers and architects, this approach was applied
at Amazon long before SOA became a buzzword in the industry. Our e-commerce platform is composed of a
federation of hundreds of software services that work in concert to deliver functionality ranging from
recommendations to order fulfillment to inventory tracking. For example, to construct a product detail page for a
customer visiting Amazon.com, our software calls on between 200 and 300 services to present a highly
personalized experience for that customer.

State management is the heart of any system that needs to grow to very large size. Many years ago,
Amazon’s requirements reached a point where many of our systems could no longer be served by any
commercial solution: our key data services store many petabytes of data and handle millions of requests per
second. To meet these demanding and unusual requirements, we’ve developed several alternative, purpose-built
persistence solutions, including our own key-value store and single table store. To do so, we’ve leaned heavily on
the core principles from the distributed systems and database research communities and invented from there. The
storage systems we’ve pioneered demonstrate extreme scalability while maintaining tight control over
performance, availability, and cost. To achieve their ultra-scale properties these systems take a novel approach to
data update management: by relaxing the synchronization requirements of updates that need to be disseminated
to large numbers of replicas, these systems are able to survive under the harshest performance and availability
conditions. These implementations are based on the concept of eventual consistency. The advances in data
management developed by Amazon engineers have been the starting point for the architectures underneath the
cloud storage and data management services offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS). For example, our Simple
Storage Service, Elastic Block Store, and SimpleDB all derive their basic architecture from unique Amazon
technologies.

Other areas of Amazon’s business face similarly complex data processing and decision problems, such as
product data ingestion and categorization, demand forecasting, inventory allocation, and fraud detection. Rule-
based systems can be used successfully, but they can be hard to maintain and can become brittle over time. In
many cases, advanced machine learning techniques provide more accurate classification and can self-heal to
adapt to changing conditions. For example, our search engine employs data mining and machine learning
algorithms that run in the background to build topic models, and we apply information extraction algorithms to
identify attributes and extract entities from unstructured descriptions, allowing customers to narrow their
searches and quickly find the desired product. We consider a large number of factors in search relevance to
predict the probability of a customer’s interest and optimize the ranking of results. The diversity of products
demands that we employ modern regression techniques like trained random forests of decision trees to flexibly
incorporate thousands of product attributes at rank time. The end result of all this behind-the-scenes software?
Fast, accurate search results that help you find what you want.

All the effort we put into technology might not matter that much if we kept technology off to the side in
some sort of R&D department, but we don’t take that approach. Technology infuses all of our teams, all of our
processes, our decision-making, and our approach to innovation in each of our businesses. It is deeply integrated
into everything we do.

One example is Whispersync, our Kindle service designed to ensure that everywhere you go, no matter what
devices you have with you, you can access your reading library and all of your highlights, notes, and bookmarks,
all in sync across your Kindle devices and mobile apps. The technical challenge is making this a reality for
millions of Kindle owners, with hundreds of millions of books, and hundreds of device types, living in over 100
countries around the world—at 24x7 reliability. At the heart of Whispersync is an eventually consistent
replicated data store, with application defined conflict resolution that must and can deal with device isolation
lasting weeks or longer. As a Kindle customer, of course, we hide all this technology from you. So when you
open your Kindle, it’s in sync and on the right page. To paraphrase Arthur C. Clarke, like any sufficiently
advanced technology, it’s indistinguishable from magic.

Now, if the eyes of some shareowners dutifully reading this letter are by this point glazing over, I will
awaken you by pointing out that, in my opinion, these techniques are not idly pursued – they lead directly to free
cash flow.

We live in an era of extraordinary increases in available bandwidth, disk space, and processing power, all of
which continue to get cheap fast. We have on our team some of the most sophisticated technologists in the world helping to solve challenges that are right on the edge of what’s possible today. As I’ve discussed many times
  before, we have unshakeable conviction that the long-term interests of shareowners are perfectly aligned with the
  interests of customers.

And we like it that way. Invention is in our DNA and technology is the fundamental tool we wield to evolve
and improve every aspect of the experience we provide our customers. We still have a lot to learn, and I expect
and hope we’ll continue to have so much fun learning it. I take great pride in being part of this team.


As always, I attach a copy of our original 1997 letter. Our approach remains the same, and it’s still Day 1.

Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
