_To our shareowners:_

## The Power of Invention

“To us, the value of Amazon Web Services is undeniable – in twenty seconds, we can double our server
capacity. In a high-growth environment like ours and with a small team of developers, it’s very important for us
to trust that we have the best support to give to the music community around the world. Five years ago, we would
have crashed and been down without knowing when we would be back. Now, because of Amazon’s continued
innovation, we can provide the best technology and continue to grow.” That’s Christopher Tholen, the Chief
Technology Officer of BandPage. His comments about how AWS helps with the critical need to scale compute
capacity quickly and reliably are not hypothetical: BandPage now helps 500,000 bands and artists connect with
tens of millions of fans.

“So, I started selling on Amazon in April of 2011, and by the time we became the top Amazon lunchbox
seller in June, we had between 50 and 75 orders a day. When we hit August and September – our busiest time,
with the start of the school year – we had 300, sometimes 500 orders a day. It was just phenomenal... I’m using
Amazon to fulfill my orders, which makes my life easier. Plus, when my customers found out they could get free
shipping with Prime subscriptions, the lunchboxes began selling like crazy.” Kelly Lester is the “mom
entrepreneur” of EasyLunchboxes, her own innovative line of easy-to-pack, environmentally friendly lunchbox
containers.

“I sort of stumbled onto it, and it opened a whole new world for me. Since I had over a thousand [book]
titles at my house, I thought, ‘I’ll give this a try.’ I sold some and I kept expanding it and expanding it, and come
to find out this was so much fun I decided I don’t ever want to get another job again. And I’ve got no boss –
other than my wife, that is. What could be better than that? We actually work together on this. We both go out
hunting, so it’s a team effort that’s worked out very well. We sell about 700 books a month. We ship between
800 and 900 to Amazon each month and Amazon ships out the 700 that people buy. Without Amazon handling
shipping and customer service, my wife and I would have to be running to the post office or someplace every day
with dozens of packages. With that part taken care of for us, life is much simpler... This is a terrific program and
I love it. After all, Amazon supplies the customers and even ships the books. I mean, how can it get better than
that?” Bob Frank founded RJF Books and More after getting laid off in the midst of the economic downturn. He
and his wife split their time between Phoenix and Minneapolis, and he describes finding the books he sells like “a
treasure hunt every day.”

“Because of Kindle Direct Publishing, I earn more royalties in one month than I ever did in a year of writing
for a traditional house. I have gone from worrying about if I will be able to pay the bills – and there were many
months when I couldn’t – to finally having real savings, even thinking about a vacation; something I haven’t
done in years... Amazon has allowed me to really spread my wings. Prior, I was boxed into a genre, yet I had all
of these other books I wanted to write. Now I can do just that. I manage my career. I feel as if I finally have a
partner in Amazon. They understand this business and have changed the face of publishing for the good of the
writer and the reader, putting choices back into our hands.” That’s A. K. Alexander, author of _Daddy’s Home_ ,
one of the top 100 best-selling Kindle books in March.

“I had no idea that March of 2010, the first month I decided to publish on KDP, would be a defining
moment in my life. Within a year of doing so, I was making enough on a monthly basis to quit my day job and
focus on writing full time! The rewards that have sprung out of deciding to publish through KDP have been
nothing short of life changing. Financially. Personally. Emotionally. Creatively. The ability to write full time, to
be home with my family, and to write exactly what I want without the input of a legacy publisher marketing
committee wanting to have a say in every detail of my writing, has made me a stronger writer, a more prolific
writer, and most importantly a far happier one.... Amazon and KDP are literally enabling creativity in the

publishing world and giving writers like me a shot at their dream, and for that I am forever grateful.” That’s
Blake Crouch, author of several thrillers, including the Kindle best seller _Run._

“Amazon has made it possible for authors like me to get their work in front of readers and has changed my
life. In a little over a year, I have sold nearly 250,000 books through the Kindle and have traded in old dreams for
bigger and better ones. Four of my books have hit the Top 100 Kindle Best Sellers List. Also, I have been
approached by agents, foreign sales people, and two movie producers, and have received mentions in the
LA Times, Wall Street Journal, and PC Magazine, and was recently interviewed by USA Today. Mostly, I am
excited that all writers now have the opportunity to get their work in front of readers without jumping through
insurmountable hoops. Writers have more options and readers have more choices. The publishing world is
changing fast, and I plan to enjoy every minute of the ride.” Theresa Ragan is the KDP author of multiple Kindle
best sellers including _Abducted_.

“Past age 60 and in the midst of the recession, my wife and I found our income options severely limited.
KDP was my one shot at a lifelong dream – our only chance at financial salvation. Within months of publishing,
KDP has completely changed our lives, enabling this aging nonfiction writer to launch a brand-new career as a
best-selling novelist. I can’t say enough on behalf of Amazon and the many tools that they make available to
independent authors. Without reservation, I urge fellow writers to investigate and seize the opportunities that
KDP offers. As I’ve happily discovered, there is zero downside risk – and the potential is virtually unlimited.”
Robert Bidinotto is the author of the Kindle best seller _Hunter: A Thriller_.

“I leveraged KDP’s technology to blow through all the traditional gatekeepers. Can you imagine how that
feels, after struggling so hard, for so long, for every ... single ... reader? Now, inspirational fiction lovers I never
would have reached are enjoying _Nobody_ and my other two novels from the Kindle Store at $2.99. I’ve always
wanted to write a Cinderella story. Now I have. And, thanks to Prince Charming (KDP), there will be more to
come...” Creston Mapes is the author of the Kindle best seller _Nobody_.

Invention comes in many forms and at many scales. The most radical and transformative of inventions are
often those that empower _others_ to unleash _their_ creativity – to pursue _their_ dreams. That’s a big part of what’s
going on with Amazon Web Services, Fulfillment by Amazon, and Kindle Direct Publishing. With AWS, FBA,
and KDP, we are creating powerful self-service platforms that allow thousands of people to boldly experiment
and accomplish things that would otherwise be impossible or impractical. These innovative, large-scale platforms
are not zero-sum – they create win-win situations and create significant value for developers, entrepreneurs,
customers, authors, and readers.

Amazon Web Services has grown to have thirty different services and thousands of large and small
businesses and individual developers as customers. One of the first AWS offerings, the Simple Storage Service,
or S3, now holds over 900 billion data objects, with more than a billion new objects being added every day.
S3 routinely handles more than 500,000 transactions per second and has peaked at close to a million transactions
per second. All AWS services are pay-as-you-go and radically transform capital expense into a variable cost.
AWS is self-service: you don’t need to negotiate a contract or engage with a salesperson – you can just read the
online documentation and get started. AWS services are elastic – they easily scale up and easily scale down.

In just the last quarter of 2011, Fulfillment by Amazon shipped tens of millions of items on behalf of sellers.
When sellers use FBA, their items become eligible for Amazon Prime, for Super Saver Shipping, and for
Amazon returns processing and customer service. FBA is self-service and comes with an easy-to-use inventory
management console as part of Amazon Seller Central. For the more technically inclined, it also comes with a set
of APIs so that you can use our global fulfillment center network like a giant computer peripheral.

I am emphasizing the self-service nature of these platforms because it’s important for a reason I think is
somewhat non-obvious: even well-meaning gatekeepers slow innovation. When a platform is self-service, even
the improbable ideas can get tried, because there’s no expert gatekeeper ready to say “that will never work!” And
guess what – many of those improbable ideas do work, and society is the beneficiary of that diversity.

Kindle Direct Publishing has quickly taken on astonishing scale – more than a thousand KDP authors now
each sell more than a thousand copies a month, some have already reached hundreds of thousands of sales, and
two have already joined the Kindle Million Club. KDP is a big win for authors. Authors who use KDP get to
keep their copyrights, keep their derivative rights, get to publish on their schedule – a typical delay in traditional
publishing can be a year or more from the time the book is finished – and ... saving the best for last ... KDP
authors can get paid royalties of 70%. The largest traditional publishers pay royalties of only 17.5% on ebooks
(they pay 25% of 70% of the selling price which works out to be 17.5% of the selling price). The KDP royalty
structure is completely transformative for authors. A typical selling price for a KDP book is a reader-friendly
$2.99 – authors get approximately $2 of that! With the legacy royalty of 17.5%, the selling price would have to
be $11.43 to yield the same $2 per unit royalty. I assure you that authors sell many, many more copies at $2.
than they would at $11.43.

Kindle Direct Publishing is good for readers because they get lower prices, but perhaps just as important,
readers also get access to more diversity since authors that might have been rejected by establishment publishing
channels now get their chance in the marketplace. You can get a pretty good window into this. Take a look at the
Kindle best-seller list, and compare it to the New York Times best-seller list – which is more diverse? The
Kindle list is chock-full of books from small presses and self-published authors, while the New York Times list
is dominated by successful and established authors.

Amazonians are leaning into the future, with radical and transformational innovations that create value for
thousands of authors, entrepreneurs, and developers. Invention has become second nature at Amazon, and in my
view the team’s pace of innovation is even accelerating – I can assure you it’s very energizing. I’m extremely
proud of the whole team, and feel lucky to have a front row seat.

```
As always, I attach a copy of our original 1997 letter. Our approach remains the same, and it’s still Day 1!
```

```
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
```
