_To our shareowners:_

As regular readers of this letter will know, our energy at Amazon comes from the desire to impress
customers rather than the zeal to best competitors. We don’t take a view on which of these approaches is more
likely to maximize business success. There are pros and cons to both and many examples of highly successful
competitor-focused companies. We do work to pay attention to competitors and be inspired by them, but it is a
fact that the customer-centric way is at this point a defining element of our culture.

One advantage – perhaps a somewhat subtle one – of a customer-driven focus is that it aids a certain type of
proactivity. When we’re at our best, we don’t wait for external pressures. We are _internally_ driven to improve
our services, adding benefits and features, before we have to. We lower prices and increase value for customers
before we have to. We invent before we have to. These investments are motivated by customer focus rather than
by reaction to competition. We think this approach earns more trust with customers and drives rapid
improvements in customer experience – importantly – even in those areas where we are already the leader.

“Thank you. Every time I see that white paper on the front page of Amazon, I know that I’m about to get
more for my money than I thought I would. I signed up for Prime for the shipping, yet now I get movies, and TV
and books. You keep adding more, but not charging more. So thanks again for the additions.” We now have more
than 15 million items in Prime, up 15x since we launched in 2005. Prime Instant Video selection tripled in just
over a year to more than 38,000 movies and TV episodes. The Kindle Owners’ Lending Library has also more
than tripled to over 300,000 books, including an investment of millions of dollars to make the entire _Harry Potter_
series available as part of that selection. We didn’t “have to” make these improvements in Prime. We did so
proactively. A related investment – a major, multi-year one – is Fulfillment by Amazon. FBA gives third-party
sellers the option of warehousing their inventory alongside ours in our fulfillment center network. It has been a
game changer for our seller customers because their items become eligible for Prime benefits, which drives their
sales, while at the same time benefitting consumers with additional Prime selection.

We build automated systems that look for occasions when we’ve provided a customer experience that isn’t
up to our standards, and those systems then proactively refund customers. One industry observer recently
received an automated email from us that said, “We noticed that you experienced poor video playback while
watching the following rental on Amazon Video On Demand: Casablanca. We’re sorry for the inconvenience and
have issued you a refund for the following amount: $2.99. We hope to see you again soon.” Surprised by the
proactive refund, he ended up writing about the experience: “Amazon ‘noticed that I experienced poor video
playback...’ And they decided to give me a refund because of that? Wow...Talk about putting customers first.”

When you pre-order something from Amazon, we guarantee you the lowest price offered by us between
your order time and the end of the day of the release date. “I just received notice of a $5 refund to my credit card
for pre-order price protection... What a great way to do business! Thank you very much for your fair and honest
dealings.” Most customers are too busy themselves to monitor the price of an item after they pre-order it, and our
policy could be to require the customer to contact us and ask for the refund. Doing it proactively is more
expensive for us, but it also surprises, delights, and earns trust.

We also have authors as customers. Amazon Publishing has just announced it will start paying authors their
royalties monthly, sixty days in arrears. The industry standard is twice a year, and that has been the standard for a
long time. Yet when we interview authors as customers, infrequent payment is a major dissatisfier. Imagine how
you’d like it if you were paid twice a year. There isn’t competitive pressure to pay authors more than once every
six months, but we’re proactively doing so. By the way – though the research was taxing, I struggled through and
am happy to report that I recently saw many Kindles in use at a Florida beach. There are five generations of
Kindle, and I believe I saw every generation in use except for the first. Our business approach is to sell premium

hardware at roughly breakeven prices. We want to make money when people use our devices – not when people
buy our devices. We think this aligns us better with customers. For example, we don’t need our customers to be
on the upgrade treadmill. We can be very happy to see people still using four-year-old Kindles!

I can keep going – Kindle Fire’s FreeTime, our customer service Andon Cord, Amazon MP3’s AutoRip –
but will finish up with a very clear example of internally driven motivation: Amazon Web Services. In 2012,
AWS announced 159 new features and services. We’ve reduced AWS prices 27 times since launching 7 years
ago, added enterprise service support enhancements, and created innovative tools to help customers be more
efficient. AWS Trusted Advisor monitors customer configurations, compares them to known best practices, and
then notifies customers where opportunities exist to improve performance, enhance security, or save money. Yes,
we are actively telling customers they’re paying us more than they need to. In the last 90 days, customers have
saved millions of dollars through Trusted Advisor, and the service is only getting started. All of this progress
comes in the context of AWS being the widely recognized leader in its area – a situation where you might worry
that external motivation could fail. On the other hand, internal motivation – the drive to get the customer to say
“Wow” – keeps the pace of innovation fast.

Our heavy investments in Prime, AWS, Kindle, digital media, and customer experience in general strike
some as too generous, shareholder indifferent, or even at odds with being a for-profit company. “Amazon, as far
as I can tell, is a charitable organization being run by elements of the investment community for the benefit of
consumers,” writes one outside observer. But I don’t think so. To me, trying to dole out improvements in a just-
in-time fashion would be too clever by half. It would be risky in a world as fast-moving as the one we all live in.
More fundamentally, I think long-term thinking squares the circle. Proactively delighting customers earns trust,
which earns more business from those customers, even in new business arenas. Take a long-term view, and the
interests of customers and shareholders align.

As I write this, our recent stock performance has been positive, but we constantly remind ourselves of an
important point – as I frequently quote famed investor Benjamin Graham in our employee all-hands meetings –
“In the short run, the market is a voting machine but in the long run, it is a weighing machine.” We don’t
celebrate a 10% increase in the stock price like we celebrate excellent customer experience. We aren’t 10%
smarter when that happens and conversely aren’t 10% dumber when the stock goes the other way. We want to be
weighed, and we’re always working to build a heavier company.

As proud as I am of our progress and our inventions, I know that we will make mistakes along the way –
some will be self-inflicted, some will be served up by smart and hard-working competitors. Our passion for
pioneering will drive us to explore narrow passages, and, unavoidably, many will turn out to be blind alleys.
But – with a bit of good fortune – there will also be a few that open up into broad avenues.

I am incredibly lucky to be a part of this large team of outstanding missionaries who value our customers as
much as I do and who demonstrate that every day with their hard work. As always, I attach a copy of our original
1997 letter. Our approach remains the same, and it’s still Day 1.

```
Jeffrey P. Bezos
Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Amazon.com, Inc.
April 2013
```
